AP Lesson 1: Introduction to Programming

1. Written code is called assembly code, which has a .java extension.
You can use a simple text editor to write a java program.

2.Setting up the JDK
The Java Development Kit (JDK for short). 
The JDK is different than the Java on your computer.
The JDK contains the files necessary to “compile” and “execute” code.

public class file name
{
	public static void main(String[]args)
	{
		System.out.println("Hello World");
	}
}

3. Compiling a Program
Compiling a program translates the code into Java bytecode that the computer can read.
Executing the program translates bytecode into machine code

ASCII Art
ASCII art is a graphic design technique that uses computers for presentation and consists of pictures pieced together from the 95 printable characters defined by the ASCII Standard from 1963 and ASCII compliant character sets with proprietary extended characters. 
The term is also loosely used to refer to text based visual art in general. 
ASCII art can be created with any text editor, and is often used with free-form languages. 
Most examples of ASCII art require a fixed-width font.

Escape Characters
Escape characters are part of the syntax for many programming languages, data formats, and communication protocols. 
For a given alphabet an escape character's purpose is to start character sequences, which have to be interpreted differently from the same characters occurring without the prefixed escape character. 
An escape character may not have its own meaning, so all escape sequences are of two or more characters.

There are usually two functions of escape sequences. 
The first is to encode a syntactic entity, such as device commands or special data, which cannot be directly represented by the alphabet. 
The second use, referred to as character quoting, is to represent characters, which cannot be typed in current context, or would have an undesired interpretation. 
In the latter case an escape sequence is a digraph consisting of an escape character itself and a "quoted" character.